Today software business success is driven by how quickly you can find a problem that people will pay to make go away, and then provide a way for them to pay you to make it go away. Success is driven by raid innovation.

Lean Startups regularly invalidate product approaches multiple times per day, and can assess market viability and enter or exit markets in a matter of 1-2 weeks. Even incumbent leaders in stable markets are under constant threat of disruption. A new entrant can literally come into existence, discover a weakness, exploit it, and develop significant market presence between one board meeting and the next.

The modern business world is simple: adapt or die.

Unfortunately, most people today are employed at businesses optimized for a very different purpose. 15 years ago, the key to business success was strategic use of resources. The most effective business was the business with greatest efficiency. This business could decide where to focus its efforts and gain the maximum benefit from any given amount of resources.

Today, business success comes from flexibility. More specifically, it comes from applied discovery. How effective the business is at discovering new insights and incorporating them into changes in the product, market, and even company structure.

When two companies compete in software, the winner is often not the one with more resources or greater efficiency. It is the one that is best able to undersstand customers and change itself on the basis of that information. It is the most flexible, adaptable company.

That's why currently a large number of traditional businesses are facinf existential threats from companies that fundamentally work differently. Modern businesses are not hierarchical. They don't have corporate strategies. Managers don't make business decisions; many companies even lack traditional managers altogether. They have effective point-to-broadcast communication systems. They have independent teams making business-critical decisions. They have vast quantities of data. Everyone at the company has full access to the data.

This is a fundamental cultural shift. That's the sustainable market advantage of new businesses. The new culture affects everything. Power and status are divided differently. Money is valued differently. Ideas come from different people. Decisions happen differently. The tools are different. The techniques are different. Governance and oversight is different. People are valued differently. The personality traits and skills critical to career success are different.

This culture change is dramatic and hard for established businesses. But all is not lost. Along the way, those businesses that have learned to be flexible have also learned how to reduce the cost of culture change. The Agile movement showed us how to transform implementation teams. Lean thinking showed us how to transform executives. Lean Startup and validated learning showed us how to transform product decision making. Now Scaled Continuous Improvement brings together 25 years of industry change into a consistent, iterative, practical, integrated way to transform entire companies, and to discover tomorrow's best way to run a business.

